DOCSP-13835 crud sort (#60)
mongodb/docs-golang: source/fundamentals/crud/read-operations/sort.txt

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to specify the order of your results
from read operations.

Sample Data
~~~~~~~~~~~

To run the examples in this guide, load these documents into the
``ratings`` collection of the ``tea`` database with the following
snippet:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/CRUD/sort.go
   :language: go
   :dedent:
   :start-after: begin insertDocs
   :end-before: end insertDocs

.. tip:: Non-existent Database and Collections

   The driver automatically creates the necessary database and/or collection
   when you perform a write operation against them if they don't already exist.

Each document contains a rating for a type of tea, which corresponds to
the ``type`` and ``rating`` fields.

.. note::

   Each example truncates the ``ObjectID`` value since the driver
   generates them uniquely.

Sort Direction
--------------

> To specify the order your results, pass an interface containing the

Reviewer: To specify the order of your results,

> field and sort direction in to the ``FindOptions.SetSort()`` function

Reviewer: specify the field and the sort direction (ascending or descending)

Reviewer: change to: to the...

Reviewer: This is not clear. So the field and sort direction are parameters of FindOptions.SetSort()? And we pass them to the other function?

Author: Correct! So Go uses a structure called [interface](https://gobyexample.com/interfaces) here, which expects the field and sort direction as parameters.

Reviewer: @kyuan-mongodb then I suggest to link to interface in Go, like you did in your comment.

as the third parameter to the ``Find()`` function.

The sort direction can be **ascending** or **descending**.

Ascending
~~~~~~~~~

An ascending sort orders your results from smallest to largest. To

> specify this sort, pass the field you want to sort by and a ``1`` to the

Reviewer: Use either "and ``1``" or "and a value ``1``" 
Same is true for the descending sort's value ``0``.

Author: I experimented with `0`, but I got an error in this driver.

Reviewer: The comment was about "a value 1" or "1", it was about an aticle a.

``FindOptions.SetSort()`` function.

.. tip::

   With an ascending sort, a ``Boolean`` orders ``false`` **then**

>    ``true``, a ``String`` orders from **a to z** and numeric types order

Reviewer: Change to:
values of type ``Boolean`` are ordered from ``false`` to ``true``, ``String`` type values are ordered from **a to z**, and numeric type values are ordered .....

Reviewer: Please check the bold text in html -- it renders strangely on current staging. See if you can get by without bold here, maybe, as I am not sure why it renders the way it does.

   from **negative infinity to positive infinity**.

Example 
```````

> The following example specifies an ascending sort on ``rating`` field:

Reviewer: on the ``rating`` field

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/CRUD/sort.go
   :language: go
   :dedent:
   :start-after: begin ascending sort
   :end-before: end ascending sort
   :emphasize-lines: 2-3, 5

After running the preceding example, the output resembles the following:

.. code-block:: none
   :copyable: false

    //results truncated
    [_id:ObjectID("...") rating:5 type:Assam]
    [_id:ObjectID("...") rating:5 type:English Breakfast]
    [_id:ObjectID("...") rating:7 type:Oolong]
    [_id:ObjectID("...") rating:8 type:Earl Grey]
    [_id:ObjectID("...") rating:10 type:Masala]

Descending
~~~~~~~~~~

A descending sort orders your results from largest to smallest. To
specify this sort, pass the field you want to sort by and a ``-1`` to the
``FindOptions.SetSort()`` function.

.. tip::

>    With a descending sort, a ``Boolean`` orders ``true`` **then**

Reviewer: Change similar to the comment on line 63.

   ``false``, a ``String`` orders from **z to a** and numeric types
   orders from **positive infinity to negative infinity**.

Example
```````

> The following example specifies a descending sort on ``rating`` field:

Reviewer: the ``rating`` field:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/CRUD/sort.go
   :language: go
   :dedent:
   :start-after: begin descending sort
   :end-before: end descending sort
   :emphasize-lines: 2-3, 5

After running the preceding example, the output resembles the following:

.. code-block:: none
   :copyable: false

    [_id:ObjectID("...") rating:10 type:Masala]
    [_id:ObjectID("...") rating:8 type:Earl Grey]
    [_id:ObjectID("...") rating:7 type:Oolong]
    [_id:ObjectID("...") rating:5 type:Assam]
    [_id:ObjectID("...") rating:5 type:English Breakfast]

Handling Ties
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A tie occurs when two or more documents have identical values in the

> field you are using to order your results. MongoDB does not guarantee

Reviewer: sort

> order in the event of ties. 

Reviewer: if ties occur.

> For example, in the preceding examples, we encounter a tie for the

Reviewer: Is it really preceding? Did you mean following?

Author: hm, I did mean preceding, but I'll clarify this to refer to the existing documents.

``rating`` in the following documents:

.. code-block:: none
   :copyable: false

   [_id:ObjectID("...") rating:5 type:Assam]
   [_id:ObjectID("...") rating:5 type:English Breakfast]

> To guarantee a specific order for documents that have fields with

Reviewer: Suggestion:
To guarantee a specific order for documents that have fields with
identical values (which may result in ties), specify additional fields to sort by.

identical values, specify additional fields to sort by in the event of a
tie.

Example
```````

> The following example specifies an ascending sort on ``rating`` field,

Reviewer: the ``rating`` field

> then a descending sort on the ``type`` field:

Reviewer: Consider adding to this part: ... then a descending sort on the ``type`` field. 

Such as: ... then a descending sort on the ``type`` field. Sorting by two fields at once allows you to achieve unambiguous sorting results when ties occur for values in one of the fields.

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/CRUD/sort.go
   :language: go
   :dedent:
   :start-after: begin multi sort
   :end-before: end multi sort
   :emphasize-lines: 2-3, 5

After running the preceding example, the output resembles the following:

.. code-block:: none
   :copyable: false

   [_id:ObjectID("...") rating:5 type:English Breakfast]
   [_id:ObjectID("...") rating:5 type:Assam]
   [_id:ObjectID("...") rating:7 type:Oolong]
   [_id:ObjectID("...") rating:8 type:Earl Grey]
   [_id:ObjectID("...") rating:10 type:Masala]

.. tip:: Using Aggregation 

   You can also specify a sort in an aggregation pipeline by including
   the :manual:`$sort </reference/operator/aggregation/sort/>` stage.

   The following example specifies the same sort from the preceding
   example in an aggregation pipeline:

   .. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/CRUD/sort.go
      :language: go
      :dedent:
      :start-after: begin aggregate sort
      :end-before: end aggregate sort

Additional Information
----------------------

> For more information on how to perform read operations, see our guide on

Reviewer: To learn more about read operations, see :doc:`retrieving data </fundamentals/crud/read-operations/retrieve>`.

:doc:`retrieving data </fundamentals/crud/read-operations/retrieve>`.

> .. For information on how to sort using an aggregation pipeline, see our

Reviewer: Change to:

To learn more about sorting in an aggregation pipeline, see :doc:`Text Search </fundamentals/crud/write-operations/text>`.

.. guide on :doc:`Text Search </fundamentals/crud/write-operations/text>`.

API Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> For more information on any of the functions or types discussed in this

Reviewer: To learn more about functions and types discussed in this guide, see the following API Documentation:

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to specify the order of your results
from read operations.

Sample Data
~~~~~~~~~~~

To run the examples in this guide, load these documents into the
``ratings`` collection of the ``tea`` database with the following
snippet:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/CRUD/sort.go
   :language: go
   :dedent:
   :start-after: begin insertDocs
   :end-before: end insertDocs

.. tip:: Non-existent Database and Collections

   The driver automatically creates the necessary database and/or collection
   when you perform a write operation against them if they don't already exist.

Each document contains a rating for a type of tea, which corresponds to
the ``type`` and ``rating`` fields.

.. note::

   Each example truncates the ``ObjectID`` value since the driver
   generates them uniquely.

Sort Direction
--------------

To specify the order of your results, pass an interface specifying the

> field and sort direction to the ``SetSort()`` function of a read

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
sort fields and directions to the ``SetSort()`` function of a read
```
May want to clarify that sort can be a "multi-sort" on multiple fields.

operations' options.

The options you specify are the last parameter to the following read
operation functions:

- ``Find()``
- ``FindOne()``
- ``FindOneAndDelete()``
- ``FindOneAndUpdate()``
- ``FindOneAndReplace()``
- ``gridfs.Bucket.Find()``

> The sort direction can be **ascending** or **descending**.

Reviewer 2: If you're doing a [text search](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/method/cursor.sort/#text-score-metadata-sort), you can _also_ specify a metadata sort (`bson.D{{ $meta: "textScore" }}`) to sort by semantic relevance on MDB 4.4+. Not sure if that's important to include.

Author: I decided to leave out text search on this page because I think it would be better saved for the Text Search page (I left a comment in the Additional Information section to link to that page).
